# Key Takeaways and Recommendations

* The absence of public transport projects in the outer years of the portfolio is a concern and is being addressed. Additional public transport projects\
  will be included in updates to the sector plan, as informed by the IPTN, to ensure the City continues to increase access well into the future.
* The updates to the sector plan will take into account the needs of a city with a growing population, rather than being driven by available grant funding. These plans will also consider the most cost-effective public transport solutions to improve travel time and safety for the greatest number of residents, where BRT may not be sustainable, to complement passenger rail.
* The revisions of the CITP and IPTN, which are currently under way, take a scenario-based approach (one being the future of the rail service, which is a fundamental informant). However, this does not provide a prioritisation framework and, as such, translating these scenarios into capital plans for the sector will be very difficult. The development of a prioritisation framework linked to the sector plan will be critical for informing choices within the capital portfolio.
* The draft CITP aims to incrementally improve public transport infrastructure and operations to enhance the safety, convenience, reliability and quality of public transport services for the greatest number of commuters, as quickly as possible. This will include the upgrading or reconfiguring of roads to give priority to road-based public transport.
